00_prepare_datasets.md, before:


# Prepare datasets

This document details the process of importing VirScan results and
metadata for the ENDIA and VIGR cohorts, preparing the datasets by
modifying relevant columns, and merging them for each cohort to enable
downstream analysis.

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

### ENDIA

1.  Read in and join VirScan data and `filter` out peptides and samples
    that are all 0.
2.  Read in metadata
3.  Join VirScan data to metadata and export dataset to `cache`

``` r
if(file.exists("cache/endia_virscan_metadata.rds")){
  endia_virscan_metadata <- read_rds("cache/endia_virscan_metadata.rds")
} else {
  #1.
endia_virscan_hits_counts_annot1_3 <- read_tsv("raw_data/virscan_hits_counts/phip11_plate1-3_v_kiwook_2_CDIVirScan_000_Hits_counts_annotated.tsv") %>% 
  select(-contains("Beads_Only")) %>% 
  pivot_longer(cols = starts_with("KiWook"), names_to = "participant_id", values_to = "abundance") 

endia_virscan_hits_counts_annot4_6 <- read_tsv("raw_data/virscan_hits_counts/phip11_plate4-6_v_kiwook_2_CDIVirScan_000_Hits_counts_annotated.tsv") %>% 
   select(-contains("Beads_Only"),
          -KiWook_PhIP11_Plate6_81_G9_POWH_SAMPLE) %>% #remove positive control 
  pivot_longer(cols = starts_with("KiWook"), names_to = "participant_id", values_to = "abundance")

endia_virscan_long <- bind_rows(endia_virscan_hits_counts_annot1_3, endia_virscan_hits_counts_annot4_6) %>% 
  group_by(pep_id) %>%
  filter(any(abundance > 0)) %>% # remove peptides that are 0 in all samples
  ungroup() %>% 
  group_by(participant_id) %>% 
  filter(sum(abundance) != 0) %>% # remove samples with 0 peptides detected 
  ungroup() %>% 
  mutate(sample_id = str_remove(participant_id, "^(?:[^_]+_){5}"),   # keep everything after the 5th _
          timepoint = str_extract(sample_id, "[^_]+$"),           # extract last segment from sample_id
          participant_id = str_remove(sample_id, "_[^_]+$"),        # remove timepoint from sample_id
          .keep = "unused")
  #2.

endia_samples <- read_csv("raw_data/metadata/identify_plasma_samples.csv") %>% 
  mutate(participant_id = str_replace_all(structured_participant_id, "-", "_"), .keep = "unused") 
         
endia_metadata <- readxl::read_xlsx("raw_data/metadata/finalweights_teddy_plasma_with_visits_deidentified_confounders.xlsx") %>% 
  right_join(endia_samples, by = join_by(mother_id, infant_id)) %>% 
  relocate(participant_id) %>% 
  mutate(recorded_visit = str_replace(recorded_visit, "(?<=[BVT])0", ""), # replace 0 preceded by B, V or T
         condition = ifelse(case == 1, "Case", "Control")) %>% 
  unite(sample_id, c(participant_id, recorded_visit), sep = "_", remove = FALSE) %>% 
  distinct(sample_id, .keep_all = TRUE) %>% # remove duplicate sample IDs from the NCC methodology
  filter(type == "Infant") %>%  # only keep infant data
  group_by(participant_id) %>% # remove controls that seroconverted to cases
  filter(!(all(c("Case", "Control") %in% condition) & condition == "Control")) %>% 
  ungroup()

  #3.

endia_virscan_metadata <- endia_virscan_long %>% 
  left_join(endia_metadata, by = join_by(sample_id, participant_id)) 

write_rds(endia_virscan_metadata, "cache/endia_virscan_metadata.rds")

}
```

### VIGR

For VIGR we similarly read in the metadata files and VirScan data and
join all datasets together. We also filter out peptides that are all 0.
Unlike in ENDIA, no samples had a total abundance of 0, so none needed
to be removed. A column called `maternal_T1D` was created to indicate
the T1D status of the mother to match ENDIA for statistical analyses.

``` r
if(file.exists("cache/vigr_virscan_metadata.rds")){
  vigr_virscan_metadata <- read_rds("cache/vigr_virscan_metadata.rds")
} else {
  
vigr_extra_metadata <- readxl::read_xlsx("raw_data/metadata/VIGR_HLA.xlsx") %>%
  select(Participant_Id, UNSW, Diabetes, Risk_group, `Age (years)`) %>% 
  mutate(maternal_T1D = if_else(Diabetes == "Mother", "T1D", "no T1D"))

vigr_metadata <- read.csv("raw_data/metadata/vigr_sample_info.csv")[-1] %>% 
   mutate(Replicate = paste0("t", Replicate)) %>% 
   left_join(vigr_extra_metadata, join_by(Participant_Id, UNSW)) %>% 
   rename(sample_id = Participant_Id)

vigr_virscan_metadata <- read_tsv("raw_data/virscan_hits_counts/vigr_Hits_counts_annotated.tsv") %>% 
  pivot_longer(cols = starts_with("UNSW"), names_to = "participant_id", values_to = "abundance") %>%
  select(!starts_with("Beads")) %>%
  group_by(pep_id) %>% 
  filter(any(abundance > 0 )) %>% 
  ungroup() %>% 
  left_join(vigr_metadata, by = join_by("participant_id" == "Sample")) %>% 
  filter(Replicate != "t1") #remove cases and ass. controls before seroconversion

write_rds(vigr_virscan_metadata, "cache/vigr_virscan_metadata.rds")
}
```

Commit message:

:2nd_place_medal: added ENDIA model retaining 2 controls that seroconverted to cases

00_prepare_datasets.md, after:


# Prepare datasets

This document details the process of importing VirScan results and
metadata for the ENDIA and VIGR cohorts, preparing the datasets by
modifying relevant columns, and merging them for each cohort to enable
downstream analysis.

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

### ENDIA

1.  Read in and join VirScan data and `filter` out peptides and samples
    that are all 0.
2.  Read in metadata
3.  Join VirScan data to metadata and export dataset to `cache`

``` r
if(file.exists("cache/endia_virscan_metadata.rds")){
  endia_virscan_metadata <- read_rds("cache/endia_virscan_metadata.rds")
} else {
  #1.
endia_virscan_hits_counts_annot1_3 <- read_tsv("raw_data/virscan_hits_counts/phip11_plate1-3_v_kiwook_2_CDIVirScan_000_Hits_counts_annotated.tsv") %>% 
  select(-contains("Beads_Only")) %>% 
  pivot_longer(cols = starts_with("KiWook"), names_to = "participant_id", values_to = "abundance") 

endia_virscan_hits_counts_annot4_6 <- read_tsv("raw_data/virscan_hits_counts/phip11_plate4-6_v_kiwook_2_CDIVirScan_000_Hits_counts_annotated.tsv") %>% 
   select(-contains("Beads_Only"),
          -KiWook_PhIP11_Plate6_81_G9_POWH_SAMPLE) %>% #remove positive control 
  pivot_longer(cols = starts_with("KiWook"), names_to = "participant_id", values_to = "abundance")

endia_virscan_long <- bind_rows(endia_virscan_hits_counts_annot1_3, endia_virscan_hits_counts_annot4_6) %>% 
  group_by(pep_id) %>%
  filter(any(abundance > 0)) %>% # remove peptides that are 0 in all samples
  ungroup() %>% 
  group_by(participant_id) %>% 
  filter(sum(abundance) != 0) %>% # remove samples with 0 peptides detected 
  ungroup() %>% 
  mutate(sample_id = str_remove(participant_id, "^(?:[^_]+_){5}"),   # keep everything after the 5th _
          timepoint = str_extract(sample_id, "[^_]+$"),           # extract last segment from sample_id
          participant_id = str_remove(sample_id, "_[^_]+$"),        # remove timepoint from sample_id
          .keep = "unused")
  #2.

endia_samples <- read_csv("raw_data/metadata/identify_plasma_samples.csv") %>% 
  mutate(participant_id = str_replace_all(structured_participant_id, "-", "_"), .keep = "unused") 
         
endia_metadata <- readxl::read_xlsx("raw_data/metadata/finalweights_teddy_plasma_with_visits_deidentified_confounders.xlsx") %>% 
  right_join(endia_samples, by = join_by(mother_id, infant_id)) %>% 
  relocate(participant_id) %>% 
  mutate(recorded_visit = str_replace(recorded_visit, "(?<=[BVT])0", ""), # replace 0 preceded by B, V or T
         condition = ifelse(case == 1, "Case", "Control")) %>% 
  unite(sample_id, c(participant_id, recorded_visit), sep = "_", remove = FALSE) %>% 
  distinct(sample_id, .keep_all = TRUE)  %>% # remove duplicate sample IDs from the NCC methodology
  filter(type == "Infant")  # only keep infant data
   
endia_metadata_wo_controls_that_seroconverted <- endia_metadata %>% 
  group_by(participant_id) %>% # remove controls that seroconverted to cases
  filter(!(all(c("Case", "Control") %in% condition) & condition == "Control")) %>% 
  ungroup()

  #3.

endia_virscan_metadata <- endia_virscan_long %>% 
  left_join(endia_metadata_wo_controls_that_seroconverted, by = join_by(sample_id, participant_id)) 

endia_virscan_metadata_w_controls_that_seroconverted <- endia_virscan_long %>% 
  left_join(endia_metadata, by = join_by(sample_id, participant_id)) 

write_rds(endia_virscan_metadata, "cache/endia_virscan_metadata.rds")
# export additional dataset which keeps the controls that seroconverted to cases - for sensitivity analysis
write_rds(endia_virscan_metadata_w_controls_that_seroconverted, "cache/endia_virscan_metadata_w_extra_ctrls.rds")

}
```

### VIGR

For VIGR we similarly read in the metadata files and VirScan data and
join all datasets together. We also filter out peptides that are all 0.
Unlike in ENDIA, no samples had a total abundance of 0, so none needed
to be removed. A column called `maternal_T1D` was created to indicate
the T1D status of the mother to match ENDIA for statistical analyses.

``` r
if(file.exists("cache/vigr_virscan_metadata.rds")){
  vigr_virscan_metadata <- read_rds("cache/vigr_virscan_metadata.rds")
} else {
  
vigr_extra_metadata <- readxl::read_xlsx("raw_data/metadata/VIGR_HLA.xlsx") %>%
  select(Participant_Id, UNSW, Diabetes, Risk_group, `Age (years)`) %>% 
  mutate(maternal_T1D = if_else(Diabetes == "Mother", "T1D", "no T1D"))

vigr_metadata <- read.csv("raw_data/metadata/vigr_sample_info.csv")[-1] %>% 
   mutate(Replicate = paste0("t", Replicate)) %>% 
   left_join(vigr_extra_metadata, join_by(Participant_Id, UNSW)) %>% 
   rename(sample_id = Participant_Id)

vigr_virscan_metadata <- read_tsv("raw_data/virscan_hits_counts/vigr_Hits_counts_annotated.tsv") %>% 
  pivot_longer(cols = starts_with("UNSW"), names_to = "participant_id", values_to = "abundance") %>%
  select(!starts_with("Beads")) %>%
  group_by(pep_id) %>% 
  filter(any(abundance > 0 )) %>% 
  ungroup() %>% 
  left_join(vigr_metadata, by = join_by("participant_id" == "Sample")) %>% 
  filter(Replicate != "t1") #remove cases and ass. controls before seroconversion

write_rds(vigr_virscan_metadata, "cache/vigr_virscan_metadata.rds")
}
```
